TODO.md, before:

# Confusion Bank - Implementation TODO

## Module 1: Project Foundation & Setup
- [x] Create project directory structure
- [x] Set up virtual environment
- [x] Install required packages (Flask, anthropic, PyPDF2, etc.)
- [x] Create `.env` file with Anthropic API key
- [x] Initialize Git repository
- [x] Create basic `app.py` with Flask setup
- [x] Test Flask server runs successfully

## Module 2: Database Setup
- [x] Create `database.py` file
- [x] Design SQLite database schema
- [x] Implement `init_database()` function
- [x] Create tables: courses, conversations, confusion_points
- [x] Test database creation and connection
- [x] Implement basic CRUD functions
- [x] Test database operations with sample data

## Module 3: PDF Processing & Syllabus Upload
- [x] Create `pdf_processor.py` file
- [x] Implement `extract_text_from_pdf()` function using PyPDF2
- [x] Test PDF text extraction with sample files
- [x] Implement `extract_course_structure()` function (placeholder until LLM integration)
- [x] Create `/upload` route in Flask
- [x] Create `templates/upload.html` for file upload form
- [x] Test end-to-end PDF upload and topic extraction
- [x] Implement `save_course_to_db()` function

## Module 4: LLM Service Integration
- [x] Create `llm_service.py` file
- [x] Set up Anthropic client configuration
- [x] Implement `chat_with_claude()` function
- [x] Test basic chat functionality
- [x] Implement `analyze_session_confusion()` function
- [x] Implement `parse_review_request()` function
- [x] Implement `improve_course_structure_extraction()` function
- [x] Implement `generate_review_content()` function
- [x] Create structured prompt template system
- [x] Test all LLM functions with real data

## Module 5: Chat Interface
- [x] Create `templates/chat.html` with chat interface
- [x] Create `static/script.js` for AJAX chat functionality
- [x] Implement `/chat` route for chat page
- [x] Implement `/api/chat` API endpoint
- [x] Test real-time chat experience
- [x] Implement conversation history display
- [x] Add session management for conversations
- [x] Test conversation storage to database
- [x] Add courses and topics API endpoints

## Module 6: Conversation Classification
- [x] Create `classifier.py` file
- [x] Integrate session activity tracking into chat flow
- [x] Implement session-based classification of conversations
- [x] Test classification accuracy with various topics
- [x] Implement confusion point detection and storage
- [x] Add admin endpoints for manual analysis
- [x] Test classification persistence in database
- [x] Test end-to-end confusion detection workflow

## Module 7: Review System - Backend
- [x] Create `review_generator.py` file
- [x] Implement `generate_review_summary()` function
- [x] Implement `generate_review_questions()` function
- [x] Test review content generation
- [x] Implement course and topic selection logic
- [x] Create database queries for confusion points retrieval
- [x] Test review data aggregation
- [x] Integrate review generation into Flask API
- [x] Add natural language review request processing
- [x] Test intelligent review generation end-to-end

## Module 8: Review Interface
- [x] Create `templates/review.html` for review mode
- [x] Implement `/review` route for course/topic selection
- [x] Implement `/api/review/<course_id>/<topic>` API endpoint
- [x] Create interactive Q&A interface
- [x] Add review session management
- [x] Test complete review flow
- [x] Add navigation between review questions

## Module 9: Frontend Styling & UX
- [x] Create `static/style.css` for basic styling
- [x] Style upload page with clean design
- [x] Style chat interface for good UX
- [x] Style review interface for readability
- [x] Add responsive design for mobile
- [x] Add loading states and user feedback
- [x] Test cross-browser compatibility

## Module 10: Error Handling & Polish
- [x] Add error handling for PDF upload failures
- [x] Add error handling for API failures
- [x] Add input validation for all forms
- [x] Add user feedback messages (success/error)
- [x] Test edge cases (empty PDFs, API timeouts)
- [x] Add graceful fallbacks for LLM failures
- [x] Implement proper logging

## Module 11: Demo Preparation
- [x] Create sample syllabus PDFs for demo
- [x] Prepare sample conversation scenarios
- [x] Test complete user flow end-to-end
- [ ] Create demo script and talking points
- [ ] Test app performance under demo conditions
- [ ] Prepare backup plans for common demo issues
- [ ] Document known limitations

## Module 12: Final Testing & Deployment
- [ ] Run comprehensive testing of all features
- [ ] Fix any critical bugs discovered
- [ ] Optimize database queries for demo
- [ ] Test app on different devices/browsers
- [ ] Prepare deployment environment
- [ ] Create final demo data set
- [ ] Run final rehearsal of demo flow

---

## Completion Tracking

### Phase 1 (Hours 1-3): Foundation ✅
- Module 1: Project Setup ✅
- Module 2: Database Setup ✅
- Module 3: PDF Processing ✅

### Phase 2 (Hours 4-6): Core Chat ✅
- Module 4: LLM Integration ✅
- Module 5: Chat Interface ✅
- Module 6: Classification ✅

### Phase 3 (Hours 7-9): Review System ✅
- Module 7: Review Backend ✅
- Module 8: Review Interface ✅

### Phase 4 (Hours 10-12): Polish & Demo ⏳
- Module 9: Styling & UX ✅
- Module 10: Error Handling ✅
- Module 11: Demo Prep ⏳ (3/7 tasks complete)
- Module 12: Final Testing ⏳ (0/7 tasks complete)

---

## Notes & Reminders
- **Priority**: Focus on core functionality first, polish last
- **Testing**: Test each module thoroughly before moving to next
- **Demo**: Keep demo scenario simple but impressive
- **Backup**: Have fallback plans for each major component
- **Time Management**: Stick to timeline, cut features if needed

## Quick Commands
```bash
# Start development
source venv/bin/activate
export FLASK_ENV=development
python app.py

# Reset database
python -c "from database import init_database; init_database()"

# Test API endpoints
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/chat -d '{"message": "test"}'
```

Commit message:

updating some ui/ux with readme

TODO.md, after:

# Confusion Bank - Implementation TODO

## Module 1: Project Foundation & Setup
- [x] Create project directory structure
- [x] Set up virtual environment
- [x] Install required packages (Flask, anthropic, PyPDF2, etc.)
- [x] Create `.env` file with Anthropic API key
- [x] Initialize Git repository
- [x] Create basic `app.py` with Flask setup
- [x] Test Flask server runs successfully

## Module 2: Database Setup
- [x] Create `database.py` file
- [x] Design SQLite database schema
- [x] Implement `init_database()` function
- [x] Create tables: courses, conversations, confusion_points
- [x] Test database creation and connection
- [x] Implement basic CRUD functions
- [x] Test database operations with sample data

## Module 3: PDF Processing & Syllabus Upload
- [x] Create `pdf_processor.py` file
- [x] Implement `extract_text_from_pdf()` function using PyPDF2
- [x] Test PDF text extraction with sample files
- [x] Implement `extract_course_structure()` function (placeholder until LLM integration)
- [x] Create `/upload` route in Flask
- [x] Create `templates/upload.html` for file upload form
- [x] Test end-to-end PDF upload and topic extraction
- [x] Implement `save_course_to_db()` function

## Module 4: LLM Service Integration
- [x] Create `llm_service.py` file
- [x] Set up Anthropic client configuration
- [x] Implement `chat_with_claude()` function
- [x] Test basic chat functionality
- [x] Implement `analyze_session_confusion()` function
- [x] Implement `parse_review_request()` function
- [x] Implement `improve_course_structure_extraction()` function
- [x] Implement `generate_review_content()` function
- [x] Create structured prompt template system
- [x] Test all LLM functions with real data

## Module 5: Chat Interface
- [x] Create `templates/chat.html` with chat interface
- [x] Create `static/script.js` for AJAX chat functionality
- [x] Implement `/chat` route for chat page
- [x] Implement `/api/chat` API endpoint
- [x] Test real-time chat experience
- [x] Implement conversation history display
- [x] Add session management for conversations
- [x] Test conversation storage to database
- [x] Add courses and topics API endpoints

## Module 6: Conversation Classification
- [x] Create `classifier.py` file
- [x] Integrate session activity tracking into chat flow
- [x] Implement session-based classification of conversations
- [x] Test classification accuracy with various topics
- [x] Implement confusion point detection and storage
- [x] Add admin endpoints for manual analysis
- [x] Test classification persistence in database
- [x] Test end-to-end confusion detection workflow

## Module 7: Review System - Backend
- [x] Create `review_generator.py` file
- [x] Implement `generate_review_summary()` function
- [x] Implement `generate_review_questions()` function
- [x] Test review content generation
- [x] Implement course and topic selection logic
- [x] Create database queries for confusion points retrieval
- [x] Test review data aggregation
- [x] Integrate review generation into Flask API
- [x] Add natural language review request processing
- [x] Test intelligent review generation end-to-end

## Module 8: Review Interface
- [x] Create `templates/review.html` for review mode
- [x] Implement `/review` route for course/topic selection
- [x] Implement `/api/review/<course_id>/<topic>` API endpoint
- [x] Create interactive Q&A interface
- [x] Add review session management
- [x] Test complete review flow
- [x] Add navigation between review questions

## Module 9: Frontend Styling & UX
- [x] Create `static/style.css` for basic styling
- [x] Style upload page with clean design
- [x] Style chat interface for good UX
- [x] Style review interface for readability
- [x] Add responsive design for mobile
- [x] Add loading states and user feedback
- [x] Test cross-browser compatibility

## Module 10: Error Handling & Polish
- [x] Add error handling for PDF upload failures
- [x] Add error handling for API failures
- [x] Add input validation for all forms
- [x] Add user feedback messages (success/error)
- [x] Test edge cases (empty PDFs, API timeouts)
- [x] Add graceful fallbacks for LLM failures
- [x] Implement proper logging

## Module 11: Final Polish & Improvements
- [x] Create sample syllabus PDFs for demo
- [x] Prepare sample conversation scenarios
- [x] Test complete user flow end-to-end
- [x] Revise answer grading output mapping - map correctness percentages to different colors and remove encouragement part from feedback
- [x] Make chat the default page and reorder navigation - chat first, then upload, then review
- [x] Add background information during chat mode by including session history in Claude context window
- [x] Fix review page UI - increase spacing for generate button and add auto-scroll to loading message
- [x] Create README for Confusion Bank project
- [ ] Incorporate MCP in review generation and answer grading process with visualizations (optional)
- [ ] Run comprehensive testing of all features and fix any critical bugs
- [ ] Create demo script and final rehearsal

---

## Completion Tracking

### Phase 1 (Hours 1-3): Foundation ✅
- Module 1: Project Setup ✅
- Module 2: Database Setup ✅
- Module 3: PDF Processing ✅

### Phase 2 (Hours 4-6): Core Chat ✅
- Module 4: LLM Integration ✅
- Module 5: Chat Interface ✅
- Module 6: Classification ✅

### Phase 3 (Hours 7-9): Review System ✅
- Module 7: Review Backend ✅
- Module 8: Review Interface ✅

### Phase 4 (Hours 10-12): Final Polish & Deployment ⏳
- Module 9: Styling & UX ✅
- Module 10: Error Handling ✅
- Module 11: Final Polish & Improvements ⏳ (3/9 tasks complete)

---

## Notes & Reminders
- **Priority**: Focus on core functionality first, polish last
- **Testing**: Test each module thoroughly before moving to next
- **Demo**: Keep demo scenario simple but impressive
- **Backup**: Have fallback plans for each major component
- **Time Management**: Stick to timeline, cut features if needed

## Quick Commands
```bash
# Start development
source venv/bin/activate
export FLASK_ENV=development
python app.py

# Reset database
python -c "from database import init_database; init_database()"

# Test API endpoints
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/chat -d '{"message": "test"}'
```
